---
title: Introduction
description: How does theming work in Nuxt ?
---

Since Nuxt 3 introduced [extends]() feature, it is now possible to merge two or more Nuxt projects.

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  extends: ['@nuxt-themes/docus']
})
```

This feature is **extremely** powerful, especially if you are trying to implement a theming system.

What **@nuxt-themes/config** offers is **opt-in** features that makes the life of theme authors easier.

## :icon{name="icon-park:file-settings" .inline-block .mr-1} Theme configuration

You can see a theme like a Nuxt project with a configurable UI and feature set.

While building your theme, you might want your users to have an easy way to toggle or configure some features.

`@nuxt-themes/config` solves that issue by providing a common API for all themes to do that.

Let's take an easy example on how @nuxt-themes/config helps with that.

1. Define the configuration option.
   ```ts [theme/theme.config.ts]
    export default defineThemeConfig({
      theme: {
        // Theme options
        options: {
          header: {
            title: 'My Theme'
          }
        },
        // Design Tokens
        tokens: {
          colors: {
            primary: '#A288A6'
          }
        }
      }
    })
   ```

2. Use the configuration key in your components.
   ```vue [layout/default.vue]
   <template>
   <!-- Template usage -->
   <main>
    <header v-if="hasHeader">
      <h1>{{ $theme.value.title }}</h1>
    </header>
   </main>
   </template>

   <script setup lang="ts">
   // Composable usage
   const theme = useTheme()
   const hasHeader = computed(() => theme.value.header)
   </script>
   ```

::alert
@nuxt-themes/config will automatically extract and generate a typing file from your theme options object.
<br/>
This ensures any access to your theme via `useTheme()` or `$theme` stays type-safe.
::

## :icon{name="noto:artist-palette" .inline-block .mr-1} Design Tokens

Design Tokens support is offered by the [`@nuxtjs/design-tokens`](https://design-tokens.nuxtjs.org) module.

You can visit the [documentation](https://design-tokens.nuxtjs.org) or the [repository](https://github.com/nuxt-commnunity/design-tokens).

These will learn you how to go even deeper in making your **theme appearance** configurable.

## :icon{name="noto:detective" .inline-block .mr-1} Theme Metas

As for now, the theme only supports basic informations like `name` or `author`.

Theme metas exists to prepare your theme to be ready to be referenced and categorized by Nuxt themes website.

It is also used to display the name of the theme to the user that uses it.
